# Readme

## 1.) General Pipeline
### 1.1.) Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/SinclairSchneider/manipulative_narrative_detection.git
```
### 1.2.) Get the dataset
```
python3 00_get_data.py
```
### 1.3.) Classify the dataset

You can adjust CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES based on your needs. 

To get more options, run ``python3 01_apply_prompt.py --help``
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 python3 01_apply_prompt.py --model qwen3.5-122b-a10b-fp8 --gpus 4 --dataset tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram.json --output_column_name classified --text_column text
```
The classification process can take from days to weeks, depending on your machine. 

If you don't want to wait, run the following command to download the already classified data:
```
python3 x1_get_classified_data.py
```
### 1.4.) Apply the classification
This will add a new but smaller file called 

``tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_BY_classified_filtered.json``

It only contains findings of manipulative posts.
```
python3 02_filter.py
```
### 1.5.) Generate embeddings
To generate the embeddings, run the following prompt.

Notice that the instruction prompt is handed over as a parameter.

A new file will be generated called

``tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_BY_classified_filtered_BY_embeddings.parquet``
```
python3 03_attach_embeddings.py --dataset tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_BY_classified_filtered.json --instruction "Identify the strategic narrative, manipulative intent, and underlying disinformation motive in the following text: "
```

If you don't want to wait, run the following command to download the already classified and embedded data:
```
python3 x2_get_classified_data_and_embeddings.py
```
### 1.6.) Dimensionality reduction (UMAP)
Apply dimensionality reduction to 5- and 2-dimensional spaces for further clustering and visualization.

A new file will be generated called
``tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_classified_embeddings_umap.parquet``
```
python3 04_umap_reduction.py
```

If you don't want to wait, run the following command to download the already classified and reduced data:
```
python3 x3_get_classified_data_and_embeddings_umap.py
```
### 1.7.) Clustering using HDBSCAN
The clustering is done with min_samples=100 and a min cluster size of 100, 200, 400, 600, 800, 1000, but you can adjust the values to your data as well.

A new file will be generated called
``tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_classified_embeddings_umap_cluster.parquet``
```
python3 05_hdbscan.py
```

If you don't want to wait, run the following command to download the already classified and reduced data:
```
python3 x4_get_classified_data_and_embeddings_umap_clustered.py
```
### 1.8.) Topic Modelling
The following script is responsible for extracting the topics. The model and IP address of the vLLM Server can be adjusted inside the script.

As a result, 6 folders with the scheme ``tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_min_cluster_size_xxx_number_of_clusters_xxx`` will be created.

The precomputed folders have the prefix ``precomputed`` so they won't be overwritten.

```
python3 06_topic_modelling.py
```
### 1.9.) Generating results
Run the following script to generate visual results that are saved in the folders ``precomputed_xxx_Topics``.

For this step, the script needs the folders generated by the previous step and the file ``tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_classified_embeddings_umap_cluster.parquet``

If you want to use the precomputed files as an input, you also need to use the download script ``python3 x4_get_classified_data_and_embeddings_umap_clustered.py``

and adjust the line ``folders = glob("tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_min_cluster_size_*")`` to ``folders = glob("precomputed_tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_min_cluster_size_*")``

```
python3 07_assesment_generate_files.py
```

## 2.) Paper evaluation
The following scripts were used to generate the evaluation of our paper.

To use them, change your current directory to ``paper_evaluation``by running ``cd paper_evaluation``.

### 2.1.) Get the ideal min_cluster_size
To get the ideal min_cluster size, run the following script.

```
python3 01_evaluation_min_cluster_size.py
```

You will get a result similar to the following table, where the noise ratio is desired to be low, and the semantic distance between the points is desired to be high.

|   min_cluster_size |   Num Clusters |   Noise Ratio (%) |   Avg Semantic Distance |
|-------------------:|---------------:|------------------:|------------------------:|
|                100 |            118 |             43.8  |                  0.3243 |
|                200 |             75 |             40.04 |                  0.3151 |
|                400 |             41 |             29.73 |                  0.3055 |
|                600 |             32 |             30.16 |                  0.3056 |
|                800 |             29 |             31.17 |                  0.2964 |
|               1000 |             24 |             32.19 |                  0.2874 |

### 2.2.) Get a human evaluation
To be the human evaluator, run the following script. 

You will be presented with a statement and need to tell if it is a manipulative narrative or not, with the option ``borderline``to skip.

Afterward, you will be presented with the model's rating alongside its reasoning, and you have to indicate whether it makes sense.

At the end, a file called ``tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_BY_classified_user.json`` will be created.

An author's version for testing is also available ``precomputed_tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_BY_classified_user.json``

Starting the evaluation can take some minutes since the file ``tweets_about_german_politicians_jan_feb_2025_reddit_and_telegram_BY_classified.json``is very big.

```
python3 02_generate_machine_human_evaluation.py
```
